DEVDOCS-5007: [update] add redirect feature (#798)
bigcommerce/docs: docs/storefront/headless/routes.mdx

# Routes with the GraphQL Storefront API

> Routes define specific URL paths for fetching or updating data. The BigCommerce GraphQL Storefront API allows you to retrieve routes for each storefront channel, making it easier to build headless storefront applications using BigCommerce's built-in content. 

Reviewer: The `routes` node cannot perform updates. I would rewrite these sentences to something like:

```
The BigCommerce GraphQL Storefront API allows you to retrieve routes for each storefront channel, making it easier to build headless storefront applications using BigCommerce's built-in content. Use of the `route` node is based on a supplied URL. The response will be an entity that exists at that URL, a redirect to a new location, or nothing if the URL does not relate to an entity or redirect.
```

When querying a `route`, the response may include the following node types:

* Product
* Category
* Brand
* NormalPage
* ContactPage
* RawHtmlPage
* Blog
* BlogPost

> ## Enhanced redirect support

Reviewer: I would just call this "Redirect support" since we have not previously documented this redirect behavior so adding the term "Enhanced" doesn't include a point of reference by which it is an enhancement.

> The new `LookUpUrl` capability now supports redirects, helping you determine the appropriate page to display. If a redirect exists for a given path, the `Redirect` node within the `route` query returns the redirect details. Otherwise, it returns `null`.

Reviewer: I don't think we should use the term "LookUpUrl". I don't think it has any meaning to a 3rd party.

I recommend rewriting this section as:

> The `route` node has support for 301 Redirects that have been added to the store. If the URL provided as input to the `route` references a redirect then the response will return a `Redirect` node which comes in two varieties: a manual redirect or a dynamic redirect.

> A `ManualRedirect` will return a fixed URL that is the destination of that redirect. A new `route` query will be needed to attempt to pull the content at that destination URL. This can lead to a chain of redirects if the destination URL is also referencing a redirect.

> A "dynamic redirect" returns an entity type and entity ID of an existing store resource. There are 5 types of dynamic redirects: `ProductRedirect`, `BrandRedirect`, `BlogPostRedirect`, `CategoryRedirect`, and `PageRedirect`. Once the entity type and ID are retrieve a new query can be initiated to pull that content from the appropriate resource node. However, it is possible to retrieve this content as part of the `route` query even if the URL provided is a dynamic redirect. We will detail further how this works below.

> ## Redirect enum values

Reviewer: I suggest a title like:
> Redirect Behavior of Route Node

> The `redirectBehavior` argument supports two values:

Reviewer: > It is possible to supply a `redirectBehavior` input argument which supports two values:

## Example queries

### Query: Fetching route details

This example retrieves details about an object (e.g., Product, Brand, or Category) based on a given URL path.

<Tabs items={['Request', 'Response']}>
  <Tab>
    ```graphql filename="Query route details" showLineNumbers copy

     query LookUpUrl(
       $urlPath: String!
       # Use GraphQL Query Variables to provide a path
     ) {
       site {
         route(path: $urlPath) {
           node {
             __typename
             id
             # A different response is returned based on which type of object was matched
             ... on Category {
               name
               description
             }
             ... on Brand {
               name
               defaultImage {
                 url(width: 200)
               }
             }
             ... on Product {
               name
               description
               images {
                 edges {
                   node {
                     url(width: 500, height: 500)
                   }
                 }
               }
             }
             ... on Redirect {

>                # all redirect attributes

Reviewer: What does this comment mean?

               toUrl
             }
           }
         }
       }
     }
```
```json filename="GraphQL variables" showLineNumbers copy 
    {

>       "urlPath": "/blog/"

Reviewer: Rather than provide an input URL of `/blog/` I think this example should have an input URL that references one of the entity types that we are defining in the query. Either a product, category, or brand. I might be confusing as to why the query did not define "Blog" as an response type yet that is what was returned.

I do think there is relevance to this type of example but we should clearly describe what is happening. I also don't think it should be the first example. The first example should be successful use of finding a desired entity at a URL.

    }
```
  </Tab>
  <Tab>
    ```json filename="Example response" showLineNumbers copy
     {
        "data": {
          "site": {
            "route": {
              "node": {
                "__typename": "Blog",
                "id": "QmxvZzoz"
              }
            }
          }
        }
      }
   ```
</Tab>
</Tabs>

### Query: Using `IGNORE` redirect behavior

> In this example query, the `node` value is "null" because the redirect is ignored.

Reviewer: I think it would be helpful to add a note here, ie:

> In this example query, the `node` value is "null" because the redirect is ignored. Note that the `redirectBehavior: IGNORE` input is default so could be excluded from the query and the same results would be received.

<Tabs items={['Request', 'Response']}>
  <Tab>
   ```graphql filename="Query using IGNORE redirect behavior" showLineNumbers copy

    query {
      site {
         route(path: "/mug" redirectBehavior: IGNORE) {
           redirect {__typename to {__typename ...on ProductRedirect{entityId path}} toUrl} 
           node {
             id
             ... on Product {
               name
               }
              }
             }
           }
         }
      ```
</Tab>
  <Tab>
  ```json filename="Example response" showLineNumbers copy
     {
  "data": {
    "site": {
      "route": {
        "redirect": {
          "__typename": "Redirect",
          "to": {
            "__typename": "ProductRedirect",
            "entityId": 132,
            "path": "/austin-coffee-cup/"
          },
          "toUrl": "https://store.mybigcommerce.com/austin-coffee-cup/"
        },
        "node": null
      }
    }
  }
}
```
</Tab>
</Tabs>

### Query: Using `FOLLOW` redirect behavior

> In this example, the `node` returns the target entity, in this case a product.

Reviewer: > In this example, the `node` returns the entity that is targeted by the dynamic redirect as part of the response because we chose to `FOLLOW` the redirect.

## Example queries

### Query: Fetching route details

This example retrieves details about an object (e.g., Product, Brand, or Category) based on a given URL path.

<Tabs items={['Request', 'Response']}>
  <Tab>
    ```graphql filename="Query route details" showLineNumbers copy

     query LookUpUrl(
       $urlPath: String!
       # Use GraphQL Query Variables to provide a path
     ) {
       site {
         route(path: $urlPath) {
           node {
             __typename
             id
             # A different response is returned based on which type of object was matched
             ... on Category {
               name
               description
             }
             ... on Brand {
               name
               defaultImage {
                 url(width: 200)
               }
             }
             ... on Product {
               name
               description
               images {
                 edges {
                   node {
                     url(width: 500, height: 500)
                   }
                 }
               }
             }
             ... on Redirect {
               toUrl

>              }

Reviewer: I think this is in the wrong spot. It looks like it is under the `node` block which it does not belong as it is not a type of object returned by the `node`. It should exist under a `redirect` node that sites at the same level as the `node` node. Or it could be removed altogether.

If you do place it under the `redirect` node then be sure to add it to the output as it will be `redirect: null` in this case.

> # Routes with the GraphQL Storefront API

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
# Storefront Routes with the GraphQL Storefront API
```

> The BigCommerce GraphQL Storefront API allows you to retrieve data at the destination of a route (URL) for each storefront channel using the `route` node. This option makes it easier to build headless storefront applications, removing the need to track entity ID and type when accessing data for entities such as Products, Categories, Pages, Blogs, and more.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The BigCommerce GraphQL Storefront API allows you to find the destination entity of a route (URL) for each storefront channel using the `route` node. This option makes it easier to build headless storefront applications, removing the need to track entity ID and type when accessing data for entities such as Products, Categories, Pages, Blogs, and more.
```

# Routes with the GraphQL Storefront API

The BigCommerce GraphQL Storefront API allows you to retrieve data at the destination of a route (URL) for each storefront channel using the `route` node. This option makes it easier to build headless storefront applications, removing the need to track entity ID and type when accessing data for entities such as Products, Categories, Pages, Blogs, and more.

> The only required input when using the `route` node is the destination URL. The response will be an entity at that URL, a redirect to a new location, or nothing if the URL does not relate to an entity or redirect.

Reviewer: Lets mention the input parameter here...I'm thinking a 2nd sentence in the existing paragraph like:

> The only required input when using the `route` node is the destination URL. Input is provided with the `path` param on the `route` node. The response will be an entity at that URL...

Author: Thank you @bc-jz  I changed line 5 as follows:

The destination URL is the only required input when using the route node. You will provide an input with the path parameter on the route node. The response will be an entity at that URL, a redirect to a new location, or nothing if the URL does not relate to an entity or redirect.

When querying a `route`, the response may include the following node types:

* Product
* Category
* Brand
* NormalPage
* ContactPage
* RawHtmlPage
* Blog
* BlogPost

## Redirect support

> The `route` node supports 301 Redirects that you have been added to the store. If the URL provided as input to the `route`, references a redirect, then the response will return a `Redirect` node, which comes in two varieties: a manual redirect or a dynamic redirect.

Reviewer: > The `route` node supports 301 Redirects that you have been added to the store.

Looks like a typo...this should read as:
The `route` node supports 301 Redirects that have been added to the store.
or
The `route` node supports 301 Redirects that you have added to the store.

> The `route` node supports 301 Redirects that you have added to the store. If the URL provided as input to the `route`, references a redirect, then the response will return a `Redirect` node, which comes in two varieties: a manual redirect or a dynamic redirect.

Reviewer: > If the URL provided as input to the `route`, references a redirect, then the response will return a `Redirect` node, which comes in two varieties: a manual redirect or a dynamic redirect.

Improper commas in this sentence.

A `ManualRedirect` returns a fixed destination URL. You will need a new `route` query to attempt to pull the content at that destination URL. If the destination URL itself is a redirect, this can create a chain of redirects requiring multiple queries.

> A "dynamic redirect" returns an entity type and entity ID of an existing store resource. There are five types of dynamic redirects: `ProductRedirect`, `BrandRedirect`, `BlogPostRedirect`, `CategoryRedirect`, and `PageRedirect`. Once the entity type and ID are retrieved, you can initiate a new query to pull that content from the appropriate resource node. With dynamic redirects, you can retrieve the target entity directly within the `route` query response, avoiding an additional request. We will detail how this works further below.

Reviewer: I'm not liking the use of "We" here since I don't think we are writing with this same perspective in other places. Maybe phrase this line:
> We will detail how this works further below.

as:
> This is detailed below.

## Redirect behavior of `route` node

It is possible to supply a `redirectBehavior` input argument to the `route` node which supports two values:

* **IGNORE**(default): 

   * The API ignores redirects and prioritizes direct entity lookups via custom URLs. 
   * If both a redirect and an entity URL exist for the same path, both the `redirect` and `node` nodes return non-null values. 
   * This behavior ensures backward compatibility.

* **FOLLOW**: 

  * The `node` node returns the target entity (e.g., category, product, blog, etc.) if the redirect is dynamic. 
  * For static/manual redirects, the `node` node returns `null` (since there’s no associated entity), while the `redirect` node provides the redirect details.

## Example queries

### Query: Fetching a product

> This example retrieves details about a specific product based on a given URL path.

Reviewer: This example attempts to retrieve the entity at the path `/product_1`. In this case that URL is mapped to a dynamic redirect which is returned instead of the entity node. The redirect points at the destination entity which is a product with id `123` and has a URL of `/t-shirt/`.

                 url(width: 200)
               }
             }
             ... on Product {
               name
               description
               images {
                 edges {
                   node {
                     url(width: 500, height: 500)
                   }
                 }
               }
             }
             ... on Redirect {
               toUrl
             }
           }
         }
       }
     }
```
```json filename="GraphQL variables" showLineNumbers copy 
    {
      "urlPath": "/Blouse/"
    }
```
  </Tab>
  <Tab>
    ```json filename="Example response" showLineNumbers copy
    {
  "data": {
    "site": {
      "route": {
        "node": {
          "__typename": "Product",
          "id": "UHJvZHVjdDoxNDE=",
          "name": "Blouse",
          "description": "<p>Blouse</p>\n<p>#blouse</p>",
          "images": {
            "edges": [
              {
                "node": {
                  "url": "https://cdn11.bigcommerce.com/s-w0astee9jo/images/stencil/500x500/products/141/396/blouse__67850.1689699580.jpg"
                }
              }
            ]
          }
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
   ```
</Tab>
</Tabs>

> ### Query: Using `IGNORE` redirect behavior

Reviewer: This example is basically the same as your first one that is called "Query: Fetching a product".

I like this example and description better than that one and think you should probably just remove the first example altogether. Making "Query: Fetching route details" your first example makes more sense to me.

<Tabs items={['Request', 'Response']}>
  <Tab>
   ```graphql filename="Query using IGNORE redirect behavior" showLineNumbers copy

    query {
      site {
         route(path: "/mug" redirectBehavior: IGNORE) {
           redirect {__typename to {__typename ...on ProductRedirect{entityId path}} toUrl} 
           node {
             id
             ... on Product {
               name
               }
              }
             }
           }
         }
      ```
</Tab>
  <Tab>
  ```json filename="Example response" showLineNumbers copy
     {
  "data": {
    "site": {
      "route": {
        "redirect": {
          "__typename": "Redirect",
          "to": {
            "__typename": "ProductRedirect",
            "entityId": 132,
            "path": "/austin-coffee-cup/"
          },
          "toUrl": "https://store.mybigcommerce.com/austin-coffee-cup/"
        },
        "node": null
      }
    }
  }
}
```
</Tab>
</Tabs>

> ### Query: Using `FOLLOW` redirect behavior

Reviewer: 👍
